README2.md, before:

# SAMPLE PAD

This is website/app is for a sample pad that play audio files based on user input, is had been developed for those interested in audio production. The user can activate audio files based on their direct input by clicking or pressing the corresponding keyboard key, more information on how use the app in the instruction of the webpage.

The aim was to build an interactive front-end website which is repsonsive to the users actions.

[Live link to website](https://ogc1231.github.io/sample-pad/)
![Website preview](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/testing/preview.png)

## UX
The design of the page of purposefully kept simple to make it has intuitive as possible for user to interact with website and to avoid distracting the user from the main purpose of the webpage. 

### Colour Scheme
I used [coolors.co](https://coolors.co/171717-ffffff-ff3939-777777-d3d3d3) to generate my colour palette.

![screenshot](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/testing/coolors.png)

- `#171717` used for backgrounds and secondary text.
- `#ffffff` used for primary text.
- `#777777` used for primary highlights
- `#FF3939` used for secondary highlights and secondary text.
- `#D3D3D3` used for secondary highlights.

### Typography

Explain any fonts and icon libraries used, like Google Fonts and/or Font Awesome.

Consider adding a link to each font used, and the Font Awesome site if used (or similar icon library).

Example:

- [Montserrat](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Montserrat) was used for the body text.

- [Lato](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Lato) was used for h1 and h2 text.

- [Remix Icon](https://remixicon.com/) icons were used for keyboard symbol on the pad buttons.

- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) icons were used for social media icons on the footer.

## User Stories
### Site Users

- As a user, I want to activate audio files based on my input.
- As a user, I want to see what see what audio sample i'm playing. 
- As a user, I want to see the corresponding button/key to activate the audio sample.
- As a user, I want to adjust the volume of audio playing directly on the webpage/app.
- As a user, I want to be able to change to another bank of audio files.
- As a user, I want to be able to open/expand and close the instructions sections.
- As a user, I want to be able to learn about sample pads.
- As a user, I want to be able to learn how to the sample pad.

## Wireframes
I've used [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/wireframes) to design my site wireframes.

### Home Page Wireframes
As the wireframe was created in the early stages of the project some things changed

![Website preview](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/wireframes/wireframe.png)

## Features

In this section, you should go over the different parts of your project,
and describe each in a sentence or so.

You will need to explain what value each of the features provides for the user,
focusing on who this website is for, what it is that they want to achieve,
and how your project is the best way to help them achieve these things.

For some/all of your features, you may choose to reference the specific project files that implement them.

IMPORTANT: Remember to always include a screenshot of each individual feature!

### Existing Features

- **Favicon**

    - The favicon on the browser tab is a picture of a musical note which is synonymous with audio/music which fits with the theme of the porject and also use the same colours used on the webpage

![Favicon](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/testing/favicon.png)

- **Main Header**

    - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible!

![Main Header](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/testing/main-header.png)

- **Volume Slider**

    - Volume slider, used to adjust the output volume of the audio directly on the page. Shown below in three main postions

    - Default Postion
![Volume Slider Default](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/testing/volume-slider.png)

    - Highest Postion
![Volume Slider Highest](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/testing/volume-slider-full.png)

    - Lowest Postion
![Volume Slider Lowest](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/testing/volume-slider-lowest.png)


- **Change Sample Bank Checkbox**

    - Change Sample Bank Checkbox, used to change the sound bank to alternative audio files when engaged while still being usable with pad buttons and keyboard key presses.

    - Checkbox Default(Unchecked) - Default Sound Files Loaded
![Change Sample Bank Checkbox Default Unchecked](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/testing/checkbox.png)

    - Checkbox Enagaged(Checked) - Alternative Sound Files Loaded
![Change Sample Bank Checkbox Enagaged Checked](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/testing/checkbox-engaged.png)


- **Pad Button Grid**

    - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible!

![screenshot](documentation/feature03.png)



- **Instructions Header**

    - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible!

![screenshot](documentation/feature03.png)



- **Instruction 1**

    - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible!

![screenshot](documentation/feature03.png)



- **Instructions 2**

    - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible!

![screenshot](documentation/feature03.png)

- **Footer**

    - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible!

![screenshot](documentation/feature03.png)



### Future Features

Do you have additional ideas that you'd like to include on your project in the future?
Fantastic! List them here!
It's always great to have plans for future improvements!
Consider adding any helpful links or notes to help remind you in the future, if you revisit the project in a couple years.

- Cool new feature #1
    - Any additional notes about this feature.
- Cool new feature #2
    - Any additional notes about this feature.
- Cool new feature #3
    - Any additional notes about this feature.

## Tools & Technologies Used

In this section, you should explain the various tools and technologies used to develop the project.
Make sure to put a link (where applicable) to the source, and explain what each was used for.
Some examples have been provided, but this is just a sample only, your project might've used others.
Feel free to delete any unused items below as necessary.

- [HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML) used for the main site content.
- [CSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSS) used for the main site design and layout.
- [CSS :root variables](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_variables.asp) used for reusable styles throughout the site.
- [CSS Flexbox](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_flexbox.asp) and/or [CSS Grid](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_grid.asp) used for an enhanced responsive layout.
- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com) used as the front-end CSS framework for modern responsiveness and pre-built components.
- [Materialize](https://materializecss.com) used as the front-end CSS framework for modern responsiveness and pre-built components.
- [JavaScript](https://www.javascript.com) used for user interaction on the site.
- [Python](https://www.python.org) used as the back-end programming language.
- [Git](https://git-scm.com) used for version control. (`git add`, `git commit`, `git push`)
- [GitHub](https://github.com) used for secure online code storage.
- [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com) used for hosting the deployed front-end site.
- [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io) used as a cloud-based IDE for development.
- [Markdown Builder by Tim Nelson](https://traveltimn.github.io/readme-builder) used to help generate the Markdown files.
- [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com) used as the Python framework for the site.
- [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com) used as the Python framework for the site.
- [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com) used as the non-relational database management with Flask.
- [SQLAlchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org) used as the relational database management with Flask.
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org) used as the relational database management.
- [ElephantSQL](https://www.elephantsql.com) used as the Postgres database.
- [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com) used for hosting the deployed back-end site.
- [Cloudinary](https://cloudinary.com) used for online static file storage.
- [Stripe](https://stripe.com) used for online secure payments of ecommerce products/services.
- [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3) used for online static file storage.

## Testing

For all testing, please refer to the [TESTING.md](TESTING.md) file.

## Deployment

The site was deployed to GitHub Pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:
- In the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad), navigate to the Settings tab 
- From the source section drop-down menu, select the **Main** Branch, then click "Save".
- The page will be automatically refreshed with a detailed ribbon display to indicate the successful deployment.

The live link can be found [here](https://ogc1231.github.io/sample-pad)

### Local Deployment

This project can be cloned or forked in order to make a local copy on your own system.

#### Cloning

You can clone the repository by following these steps:

1. Go to the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad) 
2. Locate the Code button above the list of files and click it 
3. Select if you prefer to clone using HTTPS, SSH, or GitHub CLI and click the copy button to copy the URL to your clipboard
4. Open Git Bash or Terminal
5. Change the current working directory to the one where you want the cloned directory
6. In your IDE Terminal, type the following command to clone my repository:
	- `git clone https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad.git`
7. Press Enter to create your local clone.

Alternatively, if using Gitpod, you can click below to create your own workspace using this repository.

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad)

Please note that in order to directly open the project in Gitpod, you need to have the browser extension installed.
A tutorial on how to do that can be found [here](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/configure/user-settings/browser-extension).

#### Forking

By forking the GitHub Repository, we make a copy of the original repository on our GitHub account to view and/or make changes without affecting the original owner's repository.
You can fork this repository by using the following steps:

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad)
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page) just above the "Settings" Button on the menu, locate the "Fork" Button.
3. Once clicked, you should now have a copy of the original repository in your own GitHub account!

### Local VS Deployment

Use this space to discuss any differences between the local version you've developed, and the live deployment site on GitHub Pages.

## Credits

In this section you need to reference where you got your content, media, and extra help from.
It is common practice to use code from other repositories and tutorials,
however, it is important to be very specific about these sources to avoid plagiarism.

### Content

Use this space to provide attribution links to any borrowed code snippets, elements, or resources.
A few examples have been provided below to give you some ideas.

Ideally, you should provide an actual link to every resource used, not just a generic link to the main site!

| Source | Location | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Markdown Builder by Tim Nelson](https://traveltimn.github.io/readme-builder) | README and TESTING | tool to help generate the Markdown files |
| [Chris Beams](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit) | version control | "How to Write a Git Commit Message" |
| [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_js_topnav_responsive.asp) | entire site | responsive HTML/CSS/JS navbar |
| [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_css_modals.asp) | contact page | interactive pop-up (modal) |
| [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_variables.asp) | entire site | how to use CSS :root variables |
| [Flexbox Froggy](https://flexboxfroggy.com/) | entire site | modern responsive layouts |
| [Grid Garden](https://cssgridgarden.com) | entire site | modern responsive layouts |
| [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/a/2450976) | quiz page | Fisher-Yates/Knuth shuffle in JS |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YL1F4dCUlLc) | leaderboard | using `localStorage()` in JS for high scores |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u51Zjlnui4Y) | PP3 terminal | tutorial for adding color to the Python terminal |
| [strftime](https://strftime.org) | CRUD functionality | helpful tool to format date/time from string |
| [WhiteNoise](http://whitenoise.evans.io) | entire site | hosting static files on Heroku temporarily |

### Media

Use this space to provide attribution links to any images, videos, or audio files borrowed from online.
A few examples have been provided below to give you some ideas.

If you're the owner (or a close acquaintance) of all media files, then make sure to specify this.
Let the assessors know that you have explicit rights to use the media files within your project.

Ideally, you should provide an actual link to every media file used, not just a generic link to the main site!
The list below is by no means exhaustive. Within the Code Institute Slack community, you can find more "free media" links
by sending yourself the following command: `!freemedia`.

| Source | Location | Type | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com) | entire site | image | favicon on all pages |
| [Lorem Picsum](https://picsum.photos) | home page | image | hero image background |
| [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com) | product page | image | sample of fake products |
| [Pixabay](https://pixabay.com) | gallery page | image | group of photos for gallery |
| [Wallhere](https://wallhere.com) | footer | image | background wallpaper image in the footer |
| [This Person Does Not Exist](https://thispersondoesnotexist.com) | testimonials | image | headshots of fake testimonial images |
| [Audio Micro](https://www.audiomicro.com/free-sound-effects) | game page | audio | free audio files to generate the game sounds |
| [Videvo](https://www.videvo.net/) | home page | video | background video on the hero section |
| [TinyPNG](https://tinypng.com) | entire site | image | tool for image compression |

### Acknowledgements

Use this space to provide attribution to any supports that helped, encouraged, or supported you throughout the development stages of this project.
A few examples have been provided below to give you some ideas.

- I would like to thank my Code Institute mentor, [John/Jane Doe](https://github.com/username) for their support throughout the development of this project.
- I would like to thank the [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net) tutor team for their assistance with troubleshooting and debugging some project issues.
- I would like to thank the [Code Institute Slack community](https://code-institute-room.slack.com) for the moral support; it kept me going during periods of self doubt and imposter syndrome.
- I would like to thank my spouse/partner (John/Jane), for believing in me, and allowing me to make this transition into software development.
- I would like to thank my employer, for supporting me in my career development change towards becoming a software developer.

Commit message:

Link pad button grid image, remove unneeded space

README2.md, after:

# SAMPLE PAD

This is website/app is for a sample pad that play audio files based on user input, is had been developed for those interested in audio production. The user can activate audio files based on their direct input by clicking or pressing the corresponding keyboard key, more information on how use the app in the instruction of the webpage.

The aim was to build an interactive front-end website which is repsonsive to the users actions.

[Live link to website](https://ogc1231.github.io/sample-pad/)
![Website preview](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/testing/preview.png)

## UX
The design of the page of purposefully kept simple to make it has intuitive as possible for user to interact with website and to avoid distracting the user from the main purpose of the webpage. 

### Colour Scheme
I used [coolors.co](https://coolors.co/171717-ffffff-ff3939-777777-d3d3d3) to generate my colour palette.

![screenshot](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/testing/coolors.png)

- `#171717` used for backgrounds and secondary text.
- `#ffffff` used for primary text.
- `#777777` used for primary highlights
- `#FF3939` used for secondary highlights and secondary text.
- `#D3D3D3` used for secondary highlights.

### Typography

Explain any fonts and icon libraries used, like Google Fonts and/or Font Awesome.

Consider adding a link to each font used, and the Font Awesome site if used (or similar icon library).

Example:

- [Montserrat](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Montserrat) was used for the body text.

- [Lato](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Lato) was used for h1 and h2 text.

- [Remix Icon](https://remixicon.com/) icons were used for keyboard symbol on the pad buttons.

- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) icons were used for social media icons on the footer.

## User Stories
### Site Users

- As a user, I want to activate audio files based on my input.
- As a user, I want to see what see what audio sample i'm playing. 
- As a user, I want to see the corresponding button/key to activate the audio sample.
- As a user, I want to adjust the volume of audio playing directly on the webpage/app.
- As a user, I want to be able to change to another bank of audio files.
- As a user, I want to be able to open/expand and close the instructions sections.
- As a user, I want to be able to learn about sample pads.
- As a user, I want to be able to learn how to the sample pad.

## Wireframes
I've used [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/wireframes) to design my site wireframes.

### Home Page Wireframes
As the wireframe was created in the early stages of the project some things changed

![Website preview](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/wireframes/wireframe.png)

## Features

In this section, you should go over the different parts of your project,
and describe each in a sentence or so.

You will need to explain what value each of the features provides for the user,
focusing on who this website is for, what it is that they want to achieve,
and how your project is the best way to help them achieve these things.

For some/all of your features, you may choose to reference the specific project files that implement them.

IMPORTANT: Remember to always include a screenshot of each individual feature!

### Existing Features

- **Favicon**
    - The favicon on the browser tab is a picture of a musical note which is synonymous with audio/music which fits with the theme of the porject and also use the same colours used on the webpage

![Favicon](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/testing/favicon.png)

- **Main Header**
    - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible!

![Main Header](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/testing/main-header.png)

- **Volume Slider**
    - Volume slider, used to adjust the output volume of the audio directly on the page. Shown below in three main postions

    - Default Postion
![Volume Slider Default](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/testing/volume-slider.png)

    - Highest Postion
![Volume Slider Highest](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/testing/volume-slider-full.png)

    - Lowest Postion
![Volume Slider Lowest](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/testing/volume-slider-lowest.png)

- **Change Sample Bank Checkbox**
    - Change Sample Bank Checkbox, used to change the sound bank to alternative audio files when engaged while still being usable with pad buttons and keyboard key presses.

    - Checkbox Default(Unchecked) - Default Sound Files Loaded
![Change Sample Bank Checkbox Default Unchecked](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/testing/checkbox.png)

    - Checkbox Enagaged(Checked) - Alternative Sound Files Loaded
![Change Sample Bank Checkbox Enagaged Checked](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/testing/checkbox-engaged.png)

- **Pad Button Grid**
    - Pad Button Grid, tweleve pad buttons which be pressed directly or via corresponding keyboard key to play audio file named.

![Pad Button Grid](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad/blob/main/documentation/testing/pad-button-grid.png)

- **Instructions Header**

    - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible!

![screenshot](documentation/feature03.png)



- **Instruction 1**

    - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible!

![screenshot](documentation/feature03.png)



- **Instructions 2**

    - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible!

![screenshot](documentation/feature03.png)

- **Footer**

    - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible!

![screenshot](documentation/feature03.png)



### Future Features

Do you have additional ideas that you'd like to include on your project in the future?
Fantastic! List them here!
It's always great to have plans for future improvements!
Consider adding any helpful links or notes to help remind you in the future, if you revisit the project in a couple years.

- Cool new feature #1
    - Any additional notes about this feature.
- Cool new feature #2
    - Any additional notes about this feature.
- Cool new feature #3
    - Any additional notes about this feature.

## Tools & Technologies Used

In this section, you should explain the various tools and technologies used to develop the project.
Make sure to put a link (where applicable) to the source, and explain what each was used for.
Some examples have been provided, but this is just a sample only, your project might've used others.
Feel free to delete any unused items below as necessary.

- [HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML) used for the main site content.
- [CSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSS) used for the main site design and layout.
- [CSS :root variables](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_variables.asp) used for reusable styles throughout the site.
- [CSS Flexbox](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_flexbox.asp) and/or [CSS Grid](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_grid.asp) used for an enhanced responsive layout.
- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com) used as the front-end CSS framework for modern responsiveness and pre-built components.
- [Materialize](https://materializecss.com) used as the front-end CSS framework for modern responsiveness and pre-built components.
- [JavaScript](https://www.javascript.com) used for user interaction on the site.
- [Python](https://www.python.org) used as the back-end programming language.
- [Git](https://git-scm.com) used for version control. (`git add`, `git commit`, `git push`)
- [GitHub](https://github.com) used for secure online code storage.
- [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com) used for hosting the deployed front-end site.
- [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io) used as a cloud-based IDE for development.
- [Markdown Builder by Tim Nelson](https://traveltimn.github.io/readme-builder) used to help generate the Markdown files.
- [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com) used as the Python framework for the site.
- [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com) used as the Python framework for the site.
- [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com) used as the non-relational database management with Flask.
- [SQLAlchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org) used as the relational database management with Flask.
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org) used as the relational database management.
- [ElephantSQL](https://www.elephantsql.com) used as the Postgres database.
- [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com) used for hosting the deployed back-end site.
- [Cloudinary](https://cloudinary.com) used for online static file storage.
- [Stripe](https://stripe.com) used for online secure payments of ecommerce products/services.
- [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3) used for online static file storage.

## Testing

For all testing, please refer to the [TESTING.md](TESTING.md) file.

## Deployment

The site was deployed to GitHub Pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:
- In the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad), navigate to the Settings tab 
- From the source section drop-down menu, select the **Main** Branch, then click "Save".
- The page will be automatically refreshed with a detailed ribbon display to indicate the successful deployment.

The live link can be found [here](https://ogc1231.github.io/sample-pad)

### Local Deployment

This project can be cloned or forked in order to make a local copy on your own system.

#### Cloning

You can clone the repository by following these steps:

1. Go to the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad) 
2. Locate the Code button above the list of files and click it 
3. Select if you prefer to clone using HTTPS, SSH, or GitHub CLI and click the copy button to copy the URL to your clipboard
4. Open Git Bash or Terminal
5. Change the current working directory to the one where you want the cloned directory
6. In your IDE Terminal, type the following command to clone my repository:
	- `git clone https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad.git`
7. Press Enter to create your local clone.

Alternatively, if using Gitpod, you can click below to create your own workspace using this repository.

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad)

Please note that in order to directly open the project in Gitpod, you need to have the browser extension installed.
A tutorial on how to do that can be found [here](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/configure/user-settings/browser-extension).

#### Forking

By forking the GitHub Repository, we make a copy of the original repository on our GitHub account to view and/or make changes without affecting the original owner's repository.
You can fork this repository by using the following steps:

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/ogc1231/sample-pad)
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page) just above the "Settings" Button on the menu, locate the "Fork" Button.
3. Once clicked, you should now have a copy of the original repository in your own GitHub account!

### Local VS Deployment

Use this space to discuss any differences between the local version you've developed, and the live deployment site on GitHub Pages.

## Credits

In this section you need to reference where you got your content, media, and extra help from.
It is common practice to use code from other repositories and tutorials,
however, it is important to be very specific about these sources to avoid plagiarism.

### Content

Use this space to provide attribution links to any borrowed code snippets, elements, or resources.
A few examples have been provided below to give you some ideas.

Ideally, you should provide an actual link to every resource used, not just a generic link to the main site!

| Source | Location | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Markdown Builder by Tim Nelson](https://traveltimn.github.io/readme-builder) | README and TESTING | tool to help generate the Markdown files |
| [Chris Beams](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit) | version control | "How to Write a Git Commit Message" |
| [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_js_topnav_responsive.asp) | entire site | responsive HTML/CSS/JS navbar |
| [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_css_modals.asp) | contact page | interactive pop-up (modal) |
| [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_variables.asp) | entire site | how to use CSS :root variables |
| [Flexbox Froggy](https://flexboxfroggy.com/) | entire site | modern responsive layouts |
| [Grid Garden](https://cssgridgarden.com) | entire site | modern responsive layouts |
| [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/a/2450976) | quiz page | Fisher-Yates/Knuth shuffle in JS |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YL1F4dCUlLc) | leaderboard | using `localStorage()` in JS for high scores |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u51Zjlnui4Y) | PP3 terminal | tutorial for adding color to the Python terminal |
| [strftime](https://strftime.org) | CRUD functionality | helpful tool to format date/time from string |
| [WhiteNoise](http://whitenoise.evans.io) | entire site | hosting static files on Heroku temporarily |

### Media

Use this space to provide attribution links to any images, videos, or audio files borrowed from online.
A few examples have been provided below to give you some ideas.

If you're the owner (or a close acquaintance) of all media files, then make sure to specify this.
Let the assessors know that you have explicit rights to use the media files within your project.

Ideally, you should provide an actual link to every media file used, not just a generic link to the main site!
The list below is by no means exhaustive. Within the Code Institute Slack community, you can find more "free media" links
by sending yourself the following command: `!freemedia`.

| Source | Location | Type | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com) | entire site | image | favicon on all pages |
| [Lorem Picsum](https://picsum.photos) | home page | image | hero image background |
| [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com) | product page | image | sample of fake products |
| [Pixabay](https://pixabay.com) | gallery page | image | group of photos for gallery |
| [Wallhere](https://wallhere.com) | footer | image | background wallpaper image in the footer |
| [This Person Does Not Exist](https://thispersondoesnotexist.com) | testimonials | image | headshots of fake testimonial images |
| [Audio Micro](https://www.audiomicro.com/free-sound-effects) | game page | audio | free audio files to generate the game sounds |
| [Videvo](https://www.videvo.net/) | home page | video | background video on the hero section |
| [TinyPNG](https://tinypng.com) | entire site | image | tool for image compression |

### Acknowledgements

Use this space to provide attribution to any supports that helped, encouraged, or supported you throughout the development stages of this project.
A few examples have been provided below to give you some ideas.

- I would like to thank my Code Institute mentor, [John/Jane Doe](https://github.com/username) for their support throughout the development of this project.
- I would like to thank the [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net) tutor team for their assistance with troubleshooting and debugging some project issues.
- I would like to thank the [Code Institute Slack community](https://code-institute-room.slack.com) for the moral support; it kept me going during periods of self doubt and imposter syndrome.
- I would like to thank my spouse/partner (John/Jane), for believing in me, and allowing me to make this transition into software development.
- I would like to thank my employer, for supporting me in my career development change towards becoming a software developer.
